Refactoring documentation (#33)
illinois-cs241/assignment-docs: ideal_indirection.md

## Translation Lookaside Buffer (`tlb.c` and `tlb.h`)

The Translation Lookaside Buffer will cache the base virtual address of a virtual page to the corresponding page table entry pointer.
The implementation and header is provided to you.
Make note of the use of double pointers.

> The reason why our TLB caches page table entry pointers instead of physical addresses of frames is because you will need to set metadata bits in the `page_table_entry`s when translating addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the TLB caches page table entry pointers instead of physical addresses of frames, you will need to set metadata bits in the `page_table_entry`s when translating addresses.
```

Author: This changes the intended meaning of the sentence and is incorrect. Denied.

Notice how some of the memory segments like the stack and mmap have an arrow pointing down.
This indicates that these regions "grow down" by decreasing their end boundary's virtual address as you add elements to them.
This is so that the stack and heap can share the same address space, but grow in different directions.

> It is now easy to see that if you put too many elements onto the stack it will eventually run into heap memory leading to the classic Stack Overflow<sup>TM</sup>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It should now be clear that if you put too many elements onto the stack, it will eventually run into heap memory leading to the classic Stack Overflow<sup>TM</sup> issue.
```

The reasons why this external structure is needed for this lab is to answer the question: "How do you know when an address is invalid?".
You cannot rely on the present bit of a page table entry, since that page may be valid, but just happens to be paged to disk.
The solution is to check if an address is in any memory segment with `address_in_segmentations(vm_segmentations *segmentations, uint32_t address)`.

> If the address is not in any of the process's segments, then you get one of the possible instances of the dreaded segmentation fault (segfault).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the address is not in any of the process' segments, you get one of the possible instances of the dreaded segmentation fault (segfault).
```

Note that you will need to perform this check before attempting to translate virtual addresses to physical addresses.

## Kernel (`kernel.c` and `kernel.h`)

> For this assignment all the physical memory allocations will be abstracted by `kernel.c`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this assignment, all the physical memory allocations will be abstracted by `kernel.c`.
```

This file will maintain a global array of pages that you will use to model all of physical memory.
That is to say that all virtual addresses get translated to an address in:

`char physical_memory[PHYSICAL_MEMORY_SIZE] __attribute__((aligned(PAGE_SIZE)));`

This array of physical memory will be divided into frames of size `PAGE_SIZE`.
The kernel comes with functionality to

> - request and free up frames

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- request and free frames
```

- swap frames to and from disk

You will be using these functions to obtain physical memory frames for the page tables and user data, as well as reading pages that have been swapped out to disk.

The caveat to this lab is that it is all done in user space.
That means you are technically mapping a virtual address in the simulated user space to a virtual address in your user space in the actual machine. However, all the concepts involved remain the same in a real operating system's memory management software. Thus, the address translation is as follows:

Simulated virtual address $$\rightarrow$$ Simulated physical address $$\rightarrow$$ Virtual address $$\rightarrow$$ Physical address

Note that the final transation to actual physical address will be done by the system.

We use a global `char` array for our simulated physical memory as it so happens that global variables such as these are stored in some of the lowest addresses in virtual memory.

> Because of this, the array, despite existing in a 64 bit environment, only needs the 32 lower bits of a 64 bit address to address it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of this, the array, despite existing in a 64-bit environment, only needs the 32 lower bits of a 64-bit address to address it.
```

```

These two functions will first translate simulated virtual memory addresses into simulated physical memory addresses. Then, you will read from, or write to these simulated physical memory addresses. During the reading and writing process, you will need to:
- Update any page directory and page table entries as necessary
- Update the TLB as necessary
- Request for frames, or read pages from disk as necessary
- Raise any TLB misses, page faults or segfaults that you encounter

Note: For any virtual address, you should check whether the result has been already cached in the TLB (see `tlb.h`). If not, you must search the page tables.

Note: No reads or writes should occur if you encounter a segfault

The following illustration demonstrates how to translate from a virtual address to a physical address:

![Virtual Address Translation](/images/assignment-docs/lab/ideal_indirection/virtual_address_translation.png)

That this image is saying is that you are to take the top 10 bits of the provided virtual address to index an entry in the page directory of the process.
That entry should contain the base address of a page table.

> You are to then take the next 10 bits to index an entry in the page table you got in the previous step, which should point to a frame in physical memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you should take the next 10 bits to index an entry in the page table you got in the previous step, which should point to a frame in physical memory.
```
